NED
The girls won’t remember him. Bran
never even met him.
CATELYN
You’ll tell them the stories.
NED
Old Jon would have been proud of
Bran. He was a brave boy at the beheading.
Catelyn is troubled by the thought. She releases his hand.
CATELYN
Eight is too young to see such
things.
NED
Should I tell you about the things
I saw before I was eight? (beat)
He won’t be a child forever. And winter is coming.
The words disturb Catelyn but she keeps her silence.
NED
His brothers helped him. Especially
Jon.
CATELYN
Jon Snow is his half-brother. My
lord.
Ned notes his wife’s tone but says nothing. This isn’t a fight he needs right now. Catelyn, realizing she has broached the wrong topic at the wrong time, changes the subject.
CATELYN
The raven brought more news. The
king rides for Winterfell. (beat)
Along with the queen and her brothers.
Ned considers this prospect for a moment. Clearly Catelyn already has. They both know what it means.
NED
He hates the cold. Always has. If
he comes this far north, it’s one thing he’s after.
24.
CATELYN
You can always say No.
Ned allows a grim smile, taking his wife’s hand and helping her to her feet.
NED
You don’t know the king very well.
EXT. WINTERFELL GATES - DAY
From the stronghold’s gates, the King’s Road wends its way to the horizon -- where tiny specks of red and gold appear, barely visible. Very slowly, they grow larger.
The king’s party approaches. EXT. TOWER - DAY
Bran climbs down the side of the tower, his hands and feet finding purchase on its jutting stones with a monkey’s unthinking agility.
Climbing is as natural to him as studying is onerous. He smiles as he makes his way toward the ground in record time, very pleased with himself--
Until his mother yanks him off the stones. Catelyn lowers him to the ground and sternly waits for an explanation.
BRAN
I was... I was...
CATELYN
You were bored with your lesson so
you decided to climb the castle walls, even though I’ve forbidden it two hundred times.
BRAN
I--
CATELYN
Brandon... I want you to promise
me: No more climbing. Promise.
Bran looks at his feet before gazing up at her solemnly.
BRAN I promise.
Catelyn leans over to look her son dead in the eye.
25.

CATELYN You know what?
BRAN What?
CATELYN
You always look at your feet before
you lie.
Despite Bran’s best efforts, his mouth stretches into a smile, and a chuffing laugh escapes from behind it.
Catelyn smiles, unable to help herself. She sees that his hands, clothes and bare feet are filthy from the climb down.
CATELYN
Go on, clean yourself up. The king
will be here soon.
Bran kisses his mother on the cheek and runs off.
EXT. WINTERFELL GATES - DAY
The king’s party pours through the gates of Winterfell in a river of gold, silver and steel, one hundred strong.
Over their heads, a dozen golden banners whip in the wind, emblazoned with the crowned stag of the House Baratheon.
INT. WINTERFELL - COURTYARD - DAY
At the far end of the yard, Ned’s face betrays nothing as he watches the King’s party approach with his family beside him.
Catelyn, Robb, Jon and Bran are here, as are SANSA (13), traditionally beautiful, with high cheekbones and thick red hair; ARYA (11), a skinny tomboy; and their little brother RICKON (3).
Ser Jaime rides through the gate and into the courtyard.
BRAN (whispering to Jon)
Is that the king?
JON
That’s Jaime Lannister. The
Kingslayer.
Bran can’t take his eyes off the man. He’s heard the stories.
26.

Tyrion Lannister rides behind his brother Jaime, studying the castle and its occupants, missing nothing.
JOFFREY BARATHEON (13), the crown prince, tall for his age, and haughty. Beside him:
SANDOR CLEGANE (35), “The Hound,” Joffrey’s bodyguard. Terrible burn scars cover half his face.
A huge man approaches, flanked by knights in snow-white cloaks. A black beard covers his double chin, but nothing can hide the belly that threatens to burst his doublet’s buttons.
This is KING ROBERT BARATHEON (40s). He vaults from his warhorse and gives Ned an imperious once-over.
ROBERT You’ve gotten fat.
